# Breast Cancer Classification
## _By Tuo Yang_

## Objective
To build a breast classifier on an IDC dataset that can accurately classify a histology image as benign or malignment

## What to be done in this project?
Building a classifier to training on 80% of a breast cancer histology image dataset, of that, 10% is used for validation. For another 20%, it is used for testing. The model used for classification is a CNN named CancerNet. A confusion matrix is used to analyze the performance of the model.

IDC is Invasive Dutal Carcinoma, which is the cancer that develops in a milk duct and invades the fibrous
or fatty breast tissue outside the duct. It is the most common form of breast cancer forming 80% of all 
breast cancer diagnoses. Histology is study of the microscopic structure of tissues.

## The Dataset
The IDC_regular dataset (the breast cancer histology image dataset) from Kaggle will be used in this project.
This dataset holds 277524 patches of size 50x50 extracted from 162 whole mount slide images of breast specimens
scanned at 40x. 198738 test negative and 78786 test positive with IDC. The dataset is available in public
domain.

E.g.,the file name is like: 8863_idx5_x451_y1451_class0
8863_idx5: the patient ID
451 and 1451: the x- and y- coordinates of the crop
0 is the class label (0 denotes absence of IDC)

## Project File Architecture
**Datasets (stored on google drive now: [link](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/12jS1D8anaDh4F9599bLxwfKyyJlM2VVt?usp=sharing))**: the folder used for storing datasets, which includes a subfolder named idc, idc also includes three sets of data used for the training and evaluation of the model. For saving the storage space, only partial data are remained. During the training process, the situations about each set's samples are as follows:
- Training set: found 199818 images belonging to 2 classes.
- Validation set: found 22201 images belonging to 2 classes.
- Testing set: found 55505 images belonging to 2 classes.
		 
**Evaluation Results of Model Performance**: This fold containes figures of model metrics changing trend during training process and model evaluation results for the best-performing model: model-004.h5. Specifically, it contains the following files:
- **accuracy_and_loss_curve(Adagrad optimizer).png**: the curves in this figure are generated by the training process of
								                the CNN model with the Adaptive gradients optimizer
												
- **accuracy_and_loss_curve(Adam optimizer).png**: the curves in this figure are generated by the training process of the CNN model with the Adam optimizer and the callback function ReduceLROnPlateau
- **model_evaluation_results.JPG**: the evaluation results of the trained CNN model by using the testing set, which includes multiple indices like accuracy, specificity, sensitivity, and f1 score

**build_dataset.py**: program file used for creating three sets (training, validation, and testing) in the path /datasets/idc/
				  
**config.py**: the configuration file of various paths, which will be used in build_dataset.py

**model-004.h5**: the model file with the best performance during the training process. It has the 84.68% of accuracy on the training set, 86.82% of accuracy on the testing set.

**readme.md**: helping doc

**training_and_evaluating_model.ipynb**: program file used for training and evaluating the CNN model
